>> Will Sentance: We're gonna do
pretty much what we did before, but
this time we're gonna be even
a bit more sophisticated.
And add a key pattern, as its known,
in Node, the pattern of the event system.
Where behind the scenes, when things
happen in the computer internal features,
Node is not just gonna
auto-run a function.
It's first gonna broadcast a message that
has attached to it a function that Node's
going to auto-run.
Meaning we can have more control, well
yeah, we can tell Node more detailed what
function it's gonna run
under what condition.
So if it comes as a happy request,
nicely formatted, Charlie's not sending us
corrupt data, it's gonna broadcast,
it's gonna shout out in Node, request!
And hopefully we've set up, if requests
gets shouted out, auto-run, do onIncoming.
And if it's got an error,
and it's a corrupted,
nasty request that's gonna cause issues to
us, I expect nothing less from Charlie.
Then it's gonna broadcast a message
saying or shout out, client error!
And hopefully we've set up a function
to auto-run on the client error event.
Well, let's go.
Line one, Virginia, what are we
doing in global memory, Virginia?
>> Virginia: Declaring a function,
or defining a function.
Do onIncoming.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
both of those things mean the same thing,
that means we're saving the code
of a function, do onIncoming.
Next line, Sarah Rose.
>> Sara Rose: So we're declaring
another function doOnError.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic,
thank you Sara Rose, there it is, saved.
Next line, my goodness,
we're only gonna do two of these things,
but let's get going.
First, we declare a server
on the left-hand side.
Okay, server's declared.
>> Will Sentance: Server's declared,
it's going to be the result of,
it's gonna be the result in JavaScript of
calling http.createServer().
We're not gonna pass any inputs this time.
Remember, the input we pass is
the function code that's gonna be auto-run
when an inbound request
arrives at our socket.
I have a feeling we might still
add a function to auto-run, but
this time we're gonna be more
manually controlling it.
It's actually going to do exactly the same
thing as when we pass it indirectly but,
fine, okay.
But it also is going be
using the JavaScript.
What is the thing that
http.createServer() does in Node?
Raise up your hand if you wanna
tell me what it does in Node.
Michael, take it away my friend.
>> Michael: Well, it returns a object
>> Will Sentance: That's in JavaScript,
what's it doing in Node?
Zep.
>> Zep: It sets up a socket.
>> Will Sentance: Uh-huh,
it sets up the HTTP feature of Node,
which is actually behind
the scenes just setting up.
It's gonna send a message into
the computer's internals,
where it's going to turn on in
the networking portion of our computer.
>> Will Sentance: It's gonna turn on
an open socket, which is, remember,
just a fancy word people, for an open
channel to the Internet that's two way.
That can receive data and send data back.
Okay, we've better make sure it's gonna
port, so we know which of the 64,000 entry
points, metaphorically entry points,
that the data's gonna coming at.
So I hope we're gonna have the ability
to edit, cuz I don't see in this first
line here, where we set up
the background feature, the socket.
I don't see us telling it what port is,
I hope we have the ability to edit
this background feature, I hope.
Well, do we?
Yes we do, because the other thing, so
Node, http.createServer() opens a socket.
That's what it does in Node,
a connection to the Internet.
But the other thing it does,
was it Michael you were saying?
The other thing it does is in JavaScript,
it returns what?
>> Michael: An object.
>> Will Sentance: An object full of what,
Zep?
Yeah, full of what, Virginia?
>> Zep: Methods.
>> Will Sentance: Methods, including?
>> Zep: End.
>> Will Sentance: No, definitely not.
Including?
>> Michael: listen.
>> Will Sentance: listen, yeah,
we'll see that in a second, Virginia.
>> Will Sentance: There is listen,
which these are,
let's call them our edit functions.
They let us edit this
particular Node HTTP instance.
So we're gonna have ability to edit HTTP,
okay, down here.
Which is then what we
immediately go ahead and?
By the way, what other function
do we get to, Zep or Virginia?
What other function gets
added to that object?
If you get it have a look ahead,
go ahead, Jeff.
>> Jeff: on.
>> Will Sentance: on, another function
that also, I have a strong feeling,
is gonna let us edit stuff down here.
And by the looks of it,
might let us edit what
function gets auto-run in Node,
or by Node.
So function to auto-run functions,
I feel it's gonna be functions now.
But we've got nothing stored in it yet,
you've got nothing stored here.
Well, we'd better be able to
edit this from JavaScript.
Remind me again,
why can I ongoing edit stuff down here, or
how can I ongoing edit stuff down
here in Node from JavaScript?
Raise your hand and tell me why.
Mohamed, how can I ongoing edit this HTTP
feature in the background that edits the,
how do I get to go ongoing edit it?
Mohamed, do you have an idea?
>> Mohamed: No.
>> Will Sentance: Pavi.
>> Pavi: Node daemon?
Node daemon, no.
>> Will Sentance: How do I get to
ongoing edit down here, Michael?
>> Michael: The C++ interface?
>> Sam: You use the objects,
the response and request objects.
>> Will Sentance: No,
well, yes later on, but
how do I get to ongoing edit
my setup down here, Sam?
>> Sam: Those functions.
The functions that
the [COUGH] HTTP returns.
>> Will Sentance: The functions that
the http.createServer() return down into
JavaScript.
What is the server label here?
It's a label for an object full of
functions that allow us to do what, Roman?
>> Will Sentance: That allow
us to do what, Charlie?
>> Charlie: Modify the-
>> Will Sentance: Modify the underlying
HTTP instance or feature we've set up.
So if I want to set up my
port in the background,
after I've set up the HTTP
feature with createServer.
What function from that list of
functions that got returned out as
an object in JavaScript
from http.createServer(),
what function would I use
to edit the port, Andrew?
>> Andrew: The .listen?
>> Will Sentance: The listen one.
What function do we think, Zep,
that I would use to edit or
set up what functions
to auto-run down here?
>> Zep: on.
>> Will Sentance: on, excellent.
>> Will Sentance: So Mohamed,
how am I able to, after I set up the HTTP
server feature of Node,
continue to edit it?
>> Mohamed: You use the methods
that come with the HTTP objects.
>> Will Sentance: Not quite.
When I ran createServer,
it set up the background server in Node,
but it also did something in JavaScript.
What did it do in JavaScript, Zep?
>> Zep: Created the object,
the server object?
>> Will Sentance: With what?
>> Zep: With the port, the listener-
>> Will Sentance: With a bunch of
methods-.
>> Zep: Yeah, the function.
>> Will Sentance: That would
allow me to edit this Node HTTP
server with this particular
socket I set up down here.
Right, this is a particular instance,
it's the one we just set up.
It's the particular open socket
that we just set up here,
that we want to be able
to continue to edit it.
So when we set it, what functions
set up the background open socket?
Charlie, which function do we run to
>> Charlie: createServer.
>> Will Sentance: createServer, that's
what it did in Node, not in JavaScript,
but in Node.
What did it do in JavaScript, again Zep?
>> Zep: listen.
>> Will Sentance: What did it
do in JavaScript, William?
>> William: It created an object
with the functions of createServer.
>> Will Sentance: With the functions
that link to this background
server instance in this socket,
including which functions, Charlie?
>> Charlie: listen and on.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic, and
if I run either of those functions,
they're gonna change, they're going to
edit this particular Node background
feature HTTP that we've set up,
that will edit this particular socket.
Andrew.
>> Andrew: So
could I have a server1 equals?
>> Will Sentance: Sure, I could set up,
I could do this multiple times.
So Sam,
>> Will Sentance: How
am I able to continue after
I've set up this background
open socket via Node
with the help of HTTP?
What function let me do that, by the way?
>> Will Sentance: What function let me
set up this background open socket?
>> Sam: createServer.
>> Will Sentance: createServer being run.
Once I've set it up,
I still wanna make a ton of changes,
I don't even know what
port to listen on yet.
I don't know what functions to
auto-run when a message comes in.
How am I able to do that, Sam?
>> Sam: Through the methods
in the server object?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, exactly,
the methods in the server
object which came from where?
They were JavaScript's output
of running createServer.
Charlie, what was Node's output
of running createServer,
what was the C++ output
of running createServer?
>> Charlie: Setting up the socket.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic,
what's JavaScript's output
of running createServer?
>> Charlie: The object with
the functions available.
>> Will Sentance: Which do what?
>> Charlie: Which modify Node's behavior.
>> Will Sentance: I think Charlie
deserves a hand for that.
Thank you, Charlie, excellent, well done.
>> Speaker 13: [APPLAUSE]
>> Will Sentance: No, that's excellent,
okay, all right.
It's really complicated,
there's a lot to it.
But we've got to get that
absolutely 100% precise.